# Dual-Axis-solar-Tracker
AIM:
This project presents the hardware design and implementation of a system that ensures a profile of the solar panel with the sun in order to extract maximum energy falling on it. Renewable energy is rapidly gaining importance as an energy resource as fossil fuel prices fluctuate. 
The unique feature of the proposed system is that instead of taking the earth as its reference, it takes the sun as a guiding source. Its active sensors constantly monitor the sunlight and rotate the panel towards the direction where the intensity of sunlight is maximum. 
The light dependent resistor's do the job of sensing the change in the position of the sun which is dealt by the respective change in the solar panel's position by Arduino with the help of  servo motor. 
The control circuit does the job of fetching the input from the sensor and gives command to the motor to run in order to tackle the change in the position of the sun. 
With the implementation of the proposed system the additional energy generated is around 25% to 30% with very less consumption by the system itself. In this project, an improvement in the hardware design of the existing solar energy collector system will be focused in order to provide higher efficiency at lower cost.

Methodolgy:

At the Beginning , the stand holders and support structures are build using eco-friendly or wooden materials in order to support the entire components.
Then the four LDR sensors are installed at four points which is connected to four 10kΩ resistors which are connected in parallel these LDR receive power from 5volts from Arduino. 
4LDR’s are used because to detect the light from scattered directions (all four directions) such that the panels can orient themselves.
Since our Here, two servo motor’s are used one is used tilt it in top and bottom planes and other is used to rotate the entire panel in 360°manner.
After the solar energy generated by the system , it is send on to a rechargeable battery from hence, which can be stored and used for latter purposes.

